# Thinking and Understanding React Compments

Everything in React is a compoment. Components let you split the UI into independent, **reusable pieces**, and think about each piece in isolation. 

Conceptually, components are like JavaScript functions. They accept arbitrary inputs (called “props”) and return React elements describing what should appear on the screen.

To see how a compoment works visit a website build in react, per example https://www.instagram.com/, open your dev tools by hitting Ctrl + Shift + J (on Windows) or Ctrl + Option + J (on Mac) in your keyboard. In you dev tools we will see a tag called `Compoments`, where you can explore all the compoments in that page and the `props` and `states` for each of these components.

## Props

A React component can be used over and over again so we don't have to keep writing the same code, but we're not always going to render the component with same data. E.g. in the emoji eats menu, the layout for each menu item is exactly the same but the data (name, price, description) is different. We can customise components with different data when they are created using props (properties).

## State

State is similar to props, but it cannot be accessed or modified outside of the component. It can only be used inside the component. We will add state to the parent component (app.js) and then we'll pass those values in state to some of the children components (Order.jsx and MenuItem.jsx) through props. When state is modified, the changes will automatically trickle down to those components via props. So you only need to write the code to change one thing — the state — and watch as your UI updates.

Don’t modify state directly e.g. this.state.order = 'Cheeseburger'
Use setState instead e.g this.setState({ order: 'Cheeseburger' })

## Lifecycle Methods

Through lifecycle methods, we can then control what happens when each tiny section of your UI renders, updates, thinks about re-rendering, and then disappears entirely.

http://projects.wojtekmaj.pl/react-lifecycle-methods-diagram/

